README.md, before:

# DRFT - Dart Resource Framework Toolkit

**DRFT** (pronounced "drift") is an infrastructure-as-code toolkit written in Dart. It allows you to describe your infrastructure declaratively using Dart code, leveraging Dart's expressive syntax and type system.

## Overview

DRFT enables you to:
- **Declare infrastructure** using clean, type-safe Dart code
- **Compare states** between desired and actual infrastructure
- **Plan changes** before applying them
- **Execute changes** to bring infrastructure to the desired state
- **Manage state** to track infrastructure resources

## Project Structure

This is a workspace containing multiple packages:

```
drft/
├── packages/
│   ├── drft/              # Core framework
│   ├── drft_firebase/      # Firebase provider
│   ├── drft_appstore/      # App Store Connect provider
│   └── drft_playstore/     # Google Play Console provider
├── docs/                   # Documentation
└── pubspec.yaml            # Workspace configuration
```

## Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft.git
cd drft

# Get dependencies for all packages
dart pub get
```

### Example

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';

void main() async {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'my-infrastructure',
    providers: [
      MockProvider(), // For testing
    ],
    resources: [
      // Your resources here
    ],
  );

  // Plan changes
  final plan = await stack.plan();
  print(plan.summary);

  // Apply changes
  final result = await stack.apply(plan);
  print(result.summary);
}
```

## Development

### Workspace Setup

This project uses Dart workspace resolution. All packages are in the `packages/` directory and can reference each other using path dependencies.

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run tests for all packages
dart test

# Run tests for a specific package
cd packages/drft
dart test
```

### Building

```bash
# Build all packages
dart pub get
```

## Features

- **Type Safety**: Leverage Dart's strong typing for infrastructure definitions
- **Immutable Resources**: Flutter-style immutable resources with final properties
- **Clean Syntax**: Familiar Dart constructor syntax, just like Flutter widgets
- **State Management**: Automatic state tracking and comparison
- **Dependency Resolution**: Automatic handling of resource dependencies
- **Plan Before Apply**: Always see what will change before making changes
- **Extensible**: Easy to add new providers and resources
- **Idempotent**: Running the same configuration multiple times is safe

## Project Status

✅ **Phase 1 Complete** - Core framework is implemented and functional. Currently working on provider implementations.

## Documentation

- [Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.mdx) - Quick start guide
- [Core Concepts](./docs/concepts.mdx) - Understanding DRFT fundamentals
- [Architecture](./docs/architecture.mdx) - System design and components
- [Resource, ResourceState, and Provider Relationship](./docs/resource-state-provider-relationship.mdx) - Core concepts and their relationships
- [Provider Development](./docs/providers.mdx) - Creating custom providers
- [Resource Development](./docs/resources.mdx) - Creating custom resources
- [Examples](./docs/examples.mdx) - Example configurations
- [Firebase Provider](./docs/firebase-provider.mdx) - Firebase configuration guide
- [App Store Provider](./docs/appstore-provider.mdx) - App Store Connect guide

For full documentation, visit [docs.page](https://docs.page/appsup-dart/drft)

## License

This project is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: reframe documentation as resource management framework
- Update documentation to present DRFT as a general resource management framework
- Keep IaC as an important use case but not the primary focus
- Add name explanation: DRFT = Dart Resource Framework Toolkit, "drift" refers to infrastructure drift
- Remove duplicate content (use cases section from concepts.mdx)
- Update language throughout to emphasize broader applicability beyond infrastructure
- Add examples showing diverse use cases (application config, project setup)

README.md, after:

# DRFT - Dart Resource Framework Toolkit

**DRFT** (pronounced "drift") stands for **Dart Resource Framework Toolkit**. The name "drift" refers to the concept of *infrastructure drift* - when your actual resources diverge from their desired state. DRFT helps you detect and correct this drift by comparing desired resources (defined in code) with actual resources (what exists in the system).

DRFT is a resource management framework written in Dart. It allows you to describe and manage resources declaratively using Dart code, leveraging Dart's expressive syntax and type system.

## Overview

DRFT is a framework for managing resources of any kind - from cloud infrastructure to project configuration, application setup, and more. It enables you to:

- **Declare resources** using clean, type-safe Dart code
- **Compare states** between desired and actual resources
- **Plan changes** before applying them
- **Execute changes** to bring resources to the desired state
- **Manage state** to track your resources

While DRFT excels at infrastructure-as-code (IaC) scenarios, it's designed to be a general-purpose resource management framework applicable to many different use cases.

## Project Structure

This is a workspace containing multiple packages:

```
drft/
├── packages/
│   ├── drft/              # Core framework
│   ├── drft_firebase/      # Firebase provider
│   ├── drft_appstore/      # App Store Connect provider
│   └── drft_playstore/     # Google Play Console provider
├── docs/                   # Documentation
└── pubspec.yaml            # Workspace configuration
```

## Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft.git
cd drft

# Get dependencies for all packages
dart pub get
```

### Example

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';

void main() async {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'my-infrastructure',
    providers: [
      MockProvider(), // For testing
    ],
    resources: [
      // Your resources here
    ],
  );

  // Plan changes
  final plan = await stack.plan();
  print(plan.summary);

  // Apply changes
  final result = await stack.apply(plan);
  print(result.summary);
}
```

## Development

### Workspace Setup

This project uses Dart workspace resolution. All packages are in the `packages/` directory and can reference each other using path dependencies.

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run tests for all packages
dart test

# Run tests for a specific package
cd packages/drft
dart test
```

### Building

```bash
# Build all packages
dart pub get
```

## Features

- **Type Safety**: Leverage Dart's strong typing for resource definitions
- **Immutable Resources**: Flutter-style immutable resources with final properties
- **Clean Syntax**: Familiar Dart constructor syntax, just like Flutter widgets
- **State Management**: Automatic state tracking and comparison
- **Dependency Resolution**: Automatic handling of resource dependencies
- **Plan Before Apply**: Always see what will change before making changes
- **Extensible**: Easy to add new providers and resources
- **Idempotent**: Running the same configuration multiple times is safe

## Use Cases

DRFT can be used to manage various types of resources:

- **Infrastructure as Code (IaC)**: Cloud infrastructure, servers, databases, networks
- **Project Setup**: Development environments, tooling configuration, CI/CD pipelines
- **Application Configuration**: App store listings, Firebase projects, API configurations
- **Any Declarative Resource**: Anything that can be described, planned, and managed declaratively

## Project Status

✅ **Phase 1 Complete** - Core framework is implemented and functional. Currently working on provider implementations.

## Documentation

- [Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.mdx) - Quick start guide
- [Core Concepts](./docs/concepts.mdx) - Understanding DRFT fundamentals
- [Architecture](./docs/architecture.mdx) - System design and components
- [Resource, ResourceState, and Provider Relationship](./docs/resource-state-provider-relationship.mdx) - Core concepts and their relationships
- [Provider Development](./docs/providers.mdx) - Creating custom providers
- [Resource Development](./docs/resources.mdx) - Creating custom resources
- [Examples](./docs/examples.mdx) - Example configurations
- [Firebase Provider](./docs/firebase-provider.mdx) - Firebase configuration guide
- [App Store Provider](./docs/appstore-provider.mdx) - App Store Connect guide

For full documentation, visit [docs.page](https://docs.page/appsup-dart/drft)

## License

This project is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
