docs/concepts.mdx, before:

---
title: Core Concepts
description: Understanding the fundamental concepts of DRFT
---

# Core Concepts

DRFT is built around a few key concepts that work together to manage your infrastructure.

## Resources

**Resources** are the building blocks of your infrastructure. They represent the things you want to manage - servers, databases, networks, etc.

```dart
final resource = VirtualMachine(
  name: 'web-server',
  image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
  size: 'medium',
);
```

Resources are:
- **Immutable** - Once created, properties don't change
- **Type-safe** - Dart's type system ensures correctness
- **Declarative** - You describe what you want, not how to get it

Learn more: [Resources Guide](/resources)

## Providers

**Providers** are the bridge between DRFT and the actual infrastructure platforms (AWS, Firebase, etc.). They handle the creation, reading, updating, and deletion of resources.

```dart
final provider = AwsProvider(
  region: 'us-east-1',
  credentials: awsCredentials,
);
```

Each provider knows how to:
- Create resources in its platform
- Read current resource state
- Update existing resources
- Delete resources

Learn more: [Providers Guide](/providers)

## State

**State** represents the current state of your infrastructure. DRFT tracks:
- What resources exist
- Their current properties
- Their relationships

State is stored locally (or remotely with a state backend) and is used to:
- Compare desired vs actual infrastructure
- Plan changes
- Track what's been created

Learn more: [State Management](/resource-state-provider-relationship)

## Stacks

A **Stack** is a collection of resources and providers that define a complete infrastructure configuration.

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'production',
  providers: [AwsProvider(region: 'us-east-1')],
  resources: [
    VirtualMachine(name: 'server-1'),
    Database(name: 'main-db'),
  ],
);
```

Stacks provide:
- Resource organization
- Provider configuration
- State management
- Planning and execution

## Planning

**Planning** is the process of comparing desired infrastructure (your code) with actual infrastructure (what exists) to determine what changes need to be made.

```dart
final plan = await stack.plan();
// Plan shows: create, update, or delete operations
```

A plan shows you:
- What will be created
- What will be updated
- What will be deleted
- What will remain unchanged

## Execution

**Execution** is applying the plan to actually make changes to your infrastructure.

```dart
final result = await stack.apply(plan);
// Changes are now applied
```

Execution is:
- **Safe** - You always plan first
- **Idempotent** - Running twice has the same result
- **Transactional** - Changes are atomic where possible

## Dependencies

Resources can depend on other resources. DRFT automatically:
- Orders operations correctly
- Ensures dependencies are created first
- Handles deletion in reverse order

```dart
final vpc = Vpc(name: 'main-vpc');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'main-subnet',
  vpcId: vpc.id, // Dependency
);
```

Learn more: [Dependent Resources](/dependent-resources)

## How It All Works Together

1. **You define** resources in a stack
2. **DRFT plans** what needs to change
3. **You review** the plan
4. **DRFT executes** the changes
5. **State is updated** automatically

This cycle repeats as your infrastructure evolves.

Commit message:

feat(core): add ReadOnlyResource for external read-only resources
- Add ReadOnlyResource base class for resources that cannot be created/updated/deleted
- Update Planner to skip create/update/delete operations for ReadOnlyResource
- Update Executor to read ReadOnlyResource from desired state to verify existence
- Update FirebaseProject to extend ReadOnlyResource
- Add comprehensive tests for ReadOnlyResource behavior in plan and executor
- Update documentation to explain ReadOnlyResource pattern and usage
- Remove isDataSource getter in favor of type checking with ReadOnlyResource

ReadOnlyResource represents external infrastructure that must exist before use
(e.g., Firebase projects created via Console). The framework ensures these
resources are only read, never modified, and can be used as dependencies by
other resources.

docs/concepts.mdx, after:

---
title: Core Concepts
description: Understanding the fundamental concepts of DRFT
---

# Core Concepts

DRFT is built around a few key concepts that work together to manage your infrastructure.

## Resources

**Resources** are the building blocks of your infrastructure. They represent the things you want to manage - servers, databases, networks, etc.

```dart
final resource = VirtualMachine(
  name: 'web-server',
  image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
  size: 'medium',
);
```

Resources are:
- **Immutable** - Once created, properties don't change
- **Type-safe** - Dart's type system ensures correctness
- **Declarative** - You describe what you want, not how to get it

Learn more: [Resources Guide](/resources)

## Providers

**Providers** are the bridge between DRFT and the actual infrastructure platforms (AWS, Firebase, etc.). They handle the creation, reading, updating, and deletion of resources.

```dart
final provider = AwsProvider(
  region: 'us-east-1',
  credentials: awsCredentials,
);
```

Each provider knows how to:
- Create resources in its platform
- Read current resource state
- Update existing resources
- Delete resources

Learn more: [Providers Guide](/providers)

## State

**State** represents the current state of your infrastructure. DRFT tracks:
- What resources exist
- Their current properties
- Their relationships

State is stored locally (or remotely with a state backend) and is used to:
- Compare desired vs actual infrastructure
- Plan changes
- Track what's been created

Learn more: [State Management](/resource-state-provider-relationship)

## Stacks

A **Stack** is a collection of resources and providers that define a complete infrastructure configuration.

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'production',
  providers: [AwsProvider(region: 'us-east-1')],
  resources: [
    VirtualMachine(name: 'server-1'),
    Database(name: 'main-db'),
  ],
);
```

Stacks provide:
- Resource organization
- Provider configuration
- State management
- Planning and execution

## Planning

**Planning** is the process of comparing desired infrastructure (your code) with actual infrastructure (what exists) to determine what changes need to be made.

```dart
final plan = await stack.plan();
// Plan shows: create, update, or delete operations
```

A plan shows you:
- What will be created
- What will be updated
- What will be deleted
- What will remain unchanged

## Execution

**Execution** is applying the plan to actually make changes to your infrastructure.

```dart
final result = await stack.apply(plan);
// Changes are now applied
```

Execution is:
- **Safe** - You always plan first
- **Idempotent** - Running twice has the same result
- **Transactional** - Changes are atomic where possible

## Dependencies

Resources can depend on other resources. DRFT automatically:
- Orders operations correctly
- Ensures dependencies are created first
- Handles deletion in reverse order

```dart
final vpc = Vpc(name: 'main-vpc');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'main-subnet',
  vpcId: vpc.id, // Dependency
);
```

Learn more: [Dependent Resources](/dependent-resources)

## Data Sources

**Data sources** are read-only resources that represent external infrastructure managed outside of DRFT. They cannot be created, updated, or deleted through DRFT, but they can be read to verify existence and provide information to other resources.

```dart
// Data source - represents an existing Firebase project
final project = FirebaseProject(
  id: 'project',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',  // Must exist externally
  displayName: 'My Project',
);

// Regular resource - depends on the data source
final app = FirebaseApp(
  id: 'app',
  projectId: project.projectId,  // Uses project information
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
  displayName: 'My App',
);
```

Data sources:
- Are only read (never created, updated, or deleted)
- Can be used as dependencies by other resources
- Are refreshed during state refresh operations
- Represent external resources (e.g., projects created via Console)

Learn more: [Resources Guide](/resources#data-sources-read-only-external-resources)

## How It All Works Together

1. **You define** resources in a stack
2. **DRFT plans** what needs to change
3. **You review** the plan
4. **DRFT executes** the changes
5. **State is updated** automatically

This cycle repeats as your infrastructure evolves.
