docs/firebase-provider.mdx, before:

# Firebase Provider (`drft_firebase`)

The Firebase provider enables DRFT to manage Firebase projects and apps - essential infrastructure for Flutter applications.

## Why Firebase Provider?

- **Flutter Ecosystem**: Most Flutter apps use Firebase for backend services
- **Comprehensive Configuration**: Projects and apps for iOS, Android, and Web
- **Terraform Gap**: Limited Firebase support in Terraform
- **High Value**: Solves real pain points for Flutter developers

## Installation

```yaml
# pubspec.yaml
dependencies:
  drft: ^1.0.0
  drft_firebase: ^1.0.0
```

## Configuration

The Firebase provider uses the `firebase_management` package and supports Application Default Credentials (ADC) or explicit credential configuration.

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';
import 'package:drft_firebase/drft_firebase.dart';
import 'package:firebase_management/firebase_management.dart';

final provider = FirebaseProvider(
  // Optional: provide credentials explicitly
  // If not provided, will use Application Default Credentials
  credentials: Credentials.fromServiceAccount('path/to/service-account.json'),
);
```

### Authentication

The provider supports multiple authentication methods:

1. **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** - Recommended for local development
   ```bash
   gcloud auth application-default login
   ```

2. **Service Account JSON** - For production and CI/CD
   ```dart
   FirebaseProvider(
     credentials: Credentials.fromServiceAccount('service-account.json'),
   )
   ```

3. **Environment Variables** - Set `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`
   ```bash
   export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/service-account.json
   ```

## Resources

### Firebase Project

Represents a Firebase project. Projects can be read but creation and deletion must be done through the Firebase Console or Google Cloud Console.

```dart
FirebaseProject(
  id: 'my-project',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',  // Must match existing Firebase project
  displayName: 'My Firebase Project',
)
```

**Properties:**
- `id` (required): Unique identifier for the resource in DRFT
- `projectId` (required): The Firebase project ID (must be globally unique)
- `displayName` (required): Display name for the project

**Operations:**
- ✅ Read: Verify project exists and get current state
- ❌ Create: Not supported (create via Firebase Console)
- ⚠️ Update: Limited (verifies project exists)
- ❌ Delete: Not supported (delete via Firebase Console)

### Firebase App

Represents a Firebase app (iOS, Android, or Web) within a Firebase project. Supports full CRUD operations.

```dart
// iOS App
FirebaseApp(
  id: 'ios-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
  displayName: 'My iOS App',
  bundleId: 'com.example.app',  // Required for iOS
)

// Android App
FirebaseApp(
  id: 'android-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.android,
  displayName: 'My Android App',
  packageName: 'com.example.app',  // Required for Android
)

// Web App
FirebaseApp(
  id: 'web-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.web,
  displayName: 'My Web App',
)
```

**Properties:**
- `id` (required): Unique identifier for the resource in DRFT
- `projectId` (required): The Firebase project ID this app belongs to
- `platform` (required): `FirebaseAppPlatform.ios`, `.android`, or `.web`
- `displayName` (required): Display name of the app
- `bundleId` (optional): Bundle ID for iOS apps (required when platform is iOS)
- `packageName` (optional): Package name for Android apps (required when platform is Android)

**Operations:**
- ✅ Create: Creates new Firebase app for the specified platform
- ✅ Read: Reads current app state from Firebase
- ✅ Update: Updates app display name (other properties are immutable)
- ⚠️ Delete: Placeholder (API support pending)

**Immutable Properties:**
Once created, the following properties cannot be changed:
- `platform` - Cannot change app platform
- `bundleId` - Cannot change iOS bundle ID
- `packageName` - Cannot change Android package name

**Updatable Properties:**
- `displayName` - Can be updated using the `updateApp` method

### Coming Soon

The following resources are planned for future releases:

- **Firebase Authentication** - Configure authentication providers and settings
- **Firestore Database** - Create and manage Firestore databases
- **Cloud Storage** - Manage Cloud Storage buckets
- **Remote Config** - Configure remote configuration parameters
- **App Check** - Set up App Check providers

## Complete Example

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';
import 'package:drft_firebase/drft_firebase.dart';

void main() async {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'flutter-app-backend',
    providers: [
      FirebaseProvider(
        // Uses Application Default Credentials if not provided
        // credentials: Credentials.fromServiceAccount('service-account.json'),
      ),
    ],
    resources: [
      // Firebase Project (must exist in Firebase Console)
      FirebaseProject(
        id: 'my-project',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        displayName: 'My Flutter App Backend',
      ),
      
      // iOS App
      FirebaseApp(
        id: 'ios-app',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
        displayName: 'My iOS App',
        bundleId: 'com.example.app',
      ),
      
      // Android App
      FirebaseApp(
        id: 'android-app',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.android,
        displayName: 'My Android App',
        packageName: 'com.example.app',
      ),
      
      // Web App
      FirebaseApp(
        id: 'web-app',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.web,
        displayName: 'My Web App',
      ),
    ],
  );
  
  // Plan changes
  final plan = await stack.plan();
  print(plan.summary);
  
  // Apply changes
  final result = await stack.apply(plan);
  print(result.summary);
}
```

## Usage Examples

### Creating Firebase Apps

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'my-stack',
  providers: [FirebaseProvider()],
  resources: [
    FirebaseProject(
      id: 'project',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',
      displayName: 'My Project',
    ),
    FirebaseApp(
      id: 'ios-app',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',
      platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
      displayName: 'iOS App',
      bundleId: 'com.example.app',
    ),
  ],
);

// Plan and apply
final plan = await stack.plan();
await stack.apply(plan);
```

### Updating App Display Name

```dart
// After initial creation, you can update the display name
final updatedApp = FirebaseApp(
  id: 'ios-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
  displayName: 'Updated App Name',  // Changed display name
  bundleId: 'com.example.app',
);

final plan = await stack.plan();
await stack.apply(plan);
```

### Reading Current State

```dart
// Refresh state from actual Firebase infrastructure
final currentState = await stack.refresh();

// Access app state
final appState = currentState.resources['ios-app'] as FirebaseAppState;
print('App ID: ${appState.appId}');
print('Display Name: ${appState.resource.displayName}');
```

## Implementation Notes

### Authentication

The Firebase provider uses the `firebase_management` package and supports:
- **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** - Recommended for local development
- **Service Account JSON** - For production and CI/CD
- **Environment Variables** - Via `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`

### API Limitations

- **Project Creation/Deletion**: Must be done through Firebase Console or Google Cloud Console
- **App Deletion**: Currently not supported by the API (placeholder implementation)
- **Immutable Properties**: Platform, bundleId, and packageName cannot be changed after creation
- **Rate Limits**: Firebase Management API has rate limits that may affect operations

### State Management

Firebase resources are tracked by their resource IDs in DRFT:
- Projects: Tracked by `projectId`
- Apps: Tracked by `id` with matching logic based on platform and bundleId/packageName/displayName

The provider automatically retrieves the Firebase-assigned `appId` after creation, which is stored in `FirebaseAppState`.

### Resource Matching

When reading Firebase apps, the provider matches apps using:
1. Platform match (iOS, Android, or Web)
2. Bundle ID match (for iOS) or Package Name match (for Android)
3. Display Name match (fallback)

## Resources Roadmap

### Phase 1 (Current) ✅
- ✅ Firebase Projects (read support)
- ✅ Firebase Apps (iOS, Android, Web) - full CRUD operations
  - ✅ Create apps
  - ✅ Read apps
  - ✅ Update display name
  - ⚠️ Delete apps (API support pending)

### Phase 2 (Planned)
- 🎯 APNS Auth Keys (resource defined, provider methods pending)
- 🎯 Android SHA Fingerprints (resource defined, provider methods pending)
- 🎯 Firebase Authentication configuration
- 🎯 Firestore Databases
- 🎯 Cloud Storage Buckets

### Phase 3 (Future)
- 🎯 Remote Config
- 🎯 App Check
- 🎯 Cloud Functions configuration
- 🎯 Cloud Messaging (FCM)
- 🎯 Realtime Database
- 🎯 Firebase Hosting
- 🎯 Cloud Firestore Indexes

Commit message:

feat(core): add ReadOnlyResource for external read-only resources
- Add ReadOnlyResource base class for resources that cannot be created/updated/deleted
- Update Planner to skip create/update/delete operations for ReadOnlyResource
- Update Executor to read ReadOnlyResource from desired state to verify existence
- Update FirebaseProject to extend ReadOnlyResource
- Add comprehensive tests for ReadOnlyResource behavior in plan and executor
- Update documentation to explain ReadOnlyResource pattern and usage
- Remove isDataSource getter in favor of type checking with ReadOnlyResource

ReadOnlyResource represents external infrastructure that must exist before use
(e.g., Firebase projects created via Console). The framework ensures these
resources are only read, never modified, and can be used as dependencies by
other resources.

docs/firebase-provider.mdx, after:

# Firebase Provider (`drft_firebase`)

The Firebase provider enables DRFT to manage Firebase projects and apps - essential infrastructure for Flutter applications.

## Why Firebase Provider?

- **Flutter Ecosystem**: Most Flutter apps use Firebase for backend services
- **Comprehensive Configuration**: Projects and apps for iOS, Android, and Web
- **Terraform Gap**: Limited Firebase support in Terraform
- **High Value**: Solves real pain points for Flutter developers

## Installation

```yaml
# pubspec.yaml
dependencies:
  drft: ^1.0.0
  drft_firebase: ^1.0.0
```

## Configuration

The Firebase provider uses the `firebase_management` package and supports Application Default Credentials (ADC) or explicit credential configuration.

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';
import 'package:drft_firebase/drft_firebase.dart';
import 'package:firebase_management/firebase_management.dart';

final provider = FirebaseProvider(
  // Optional: provide credentials explicitly
  // If not provided, will use Application Default Credentials
  credentials: Credentials.fromServiceAccount('path/to/service-account.json'),
);
```

### Authentication

The provider supports multiple authentication methods:

1. **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** - Recommended for local development
   ```bash
   gcloud auth application-default login
   ```

2. **Service Account JSON** - For production and CI/CD
   ```dart
   FirebaseProvider(
     credentials: Credentials.fromServiceAccount('service-account.json'),
   )
   ```

3. **Environment Variables** - Set `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`
   ```bash
   export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/service-account.json
   ```

## Resources

### Firebase Project

Represents a Firebase project that exists externally. This is a **data source** - it cannot be created, updated, or deleted through DRFT. Projects must be managed through the Firebase Console or Google Cloud Console.

```dart
FirebaseProject(
  id: 'my-project',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',  // Must match existing Firebase project
  displayName: 'My Firebase Project',
)
```

**Properties:**
- `id` (required): Unique identifier for the resource in DRFT
- `projectId` (required): The Firebase project ID (must be globally unique)
- `displayName` (required): Display name for the project

**Operations:**
- ✅ Read: Verify project exists and get current state
- ❌ Create: Not supported (create via Firebase Console)
- ❌ Update: Not supported (data source - read-only)
- ❌ Delete: Not supported (delete via Firebase Console)

**Data Source Behavior:**
- `FirebaseProject` extends `ReadOnlyResource` (read-only external resource)
- It will never appear in create, update, or delete operations
- It is read during planning and refresh to verify existence
- Other resources (like `FirebaseApp`) can depend on it to get the `projectId`

### Firebase App

Represents a Firebase app (iOS, Android, or Web) within a Firebase project. Supports full CRUD operations.

```dart
// iOS App
FirebaseApp(
  id: 'ios-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
  displayName: 'My iOS App',
  bundleId: 'com.example.app',  // Required for iOS
)

// Android App
FirebaseApp(
  id: 'android-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.android,
  displayName: 'My Android App',
  packageName: 'com.example.app',  // Required for Android
)

// Web App
FirebaseApp(
  id: 'web-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.web,
  displayName: 'My Web App',
)
```

**Properties:**
- `id` (required): Unique identifier for the resource in DRFT
- `projectId` (required): The Firebase project ID this app belongs to
- `platform` (required): `FirebaseAppPlatform.ios`, `.android`, or `.web`
- `displayName` (required): Display name of the app
- `bundleId` (optional): Bundle ID for iOS apps (required when platform is iOS)
- `packageName` (optional): Package name for Android apps (required when platform is Android)

**Operations:**
- ✅ Create: Creates new Firebase app for the specified platform
- ✅ Read: Reads current app state from Firebase
- ✅ Update: Updates app display name (other properties are immutable)
- ⚠️ Delete: Placeholder (API support pending)

**Immutable Properties:**
Once created, the following properties cannot be changed:
- `platform` - Cannot change app platform
- `bundleId` - Cannot change iOS bundle ID
- `packageName` - Cannot change Android package name

**Updatable Properties:**
- `displayName` - Can be updated using the `updateApp` method

### Coming Soon

The following resources are planned for future releases:

- **Firebase Authentication** - Configure authentication providers and settings
- **Firestore Database** - Create and manage Firestore databases
- **Cloud Storage** - Manage Cloud Storage buckets
- **Remote Config** - Configure remote configuration parameters
- **App Check** - Set up App Check providers

## Complete Example

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';
import 'package:drft_firebase/drft_firebase.dart';

void main() async {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'flutter-app-backend',
    providers: [
      FirebaseProvider(
        // Uses Application Default Credentials if not provided
        // credentials: Credentials.fromServiceAccount('service-account.json'),
      ),
    ],
    resources: [
      // Firebase Project (must exist in Firebase Console)
      FirebaseProject(
        id: 'my-project',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        displayName: 'My Flutter App Backend',
      ),
      
      // iOS App
      FirebaseApp(
        id: 'ios-app',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
        displayName: 'My iOS App',
        bundleId: 'com.example.app',
      ),
      
      // Android App
      FirebaseApp(
        id: 'android-app',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.android,
        displayName: 'My Android App',
        packageName: 'com.example.app',
      ),
      
      // Web App
      FirebaseApp(
        id: 'web-app',
        projectId: 'my-flutter-app',
        platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.web,
        displayName: 'My Web App',
      ),
    ],
  );
  
  // Plan changes
  final plan = await stack.plan();
  print(plan.summary);
  
  // Apply changes
  final result = await stack.apply(plan);
  print(result.summary);
}
```

## Usage Examples

### Creating Firebase Apps

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'my-stack',
  providers: [FirebaseProvider()],
  resources: [
    FirebaseProject(
      id: 'project',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',
      displayName: 'My Project',
    ),
    FirebaseApp(
      id: 'ios-app',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',
      platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
      displayName: 'iOS App',
      bundleId: 'com.example.app',
    ),
  ],
);

// Plan and apply
final plan = await stack.plan();
await stack.apply(plan);
```

### Updating App Display Name

```dart
// After initial creation, you can update the display name
final updatedApp = FirebaseApp(
  id: 'ios-app',
  projectId: 'my-project-id',
  platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
  displayName: 'Updated App Name',  // Changed display name
  bundleId: 'com.example.app',
);

final plan = await stack.plan();
await stack.apply(plan);
```

### Reading Current State

```dart
// Refresh state from actual Firebase infrastructure
final currentState = await stack.refresh();

// Access app state
final appState = currentState.resources['ios-app'] as FirebaseAppState;
print('App ID: ${appState.appId}');
print('Display Name: ${appState.resource.displayName}');
```

## Implementation Notes

### Authentication

The Firebase provider uses the `firebase_management` package and supports:
- **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** - Recommended for local development
- **Service Account JSON** - For production and CI/CD
- **Environment Variables** - Via `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`

### API Limitations

- **Project Creation/Deletion**: Must be done through Firebase Console or Google Cloud Console
- **App Deletion**: Currently not supported by the API (placeholder implementation)
- **Immutable Properties**: Platform, bundleId, and packageName cannot be changed after creation
- **Rate Limits**: Firebase Management API has rate limits that may affect operations

### State Management

Firebase resources are tracked by their resource IDs in DRFT:
- Projects: Tracked by `projectId`
- Apps: Tracked by `id` with matching logic based on platform and bundleId/packageName/displayName

The provider automatically retrieves the Firebase-assigned `appId` after creation, which is stored in `FirebaseAppState`.

### Resource Matching

When reading Firebase apps, the provider matches apps using:
1. Platform match (iOS, Android, or Web)
2. Bundle ID match (for iOS) or Package Name match (for Android)
3. Display Name match (fallback)

## Resources Roadmap

### Phase 1 (Current) ✅
- ✅ Firebase Projects (read support)
- ✅ Firebase Apps (iOS, Android, Web) - full CRUD operations
  - ✅ Create apps
  - ✅ Read apps
  - ✅ Update display name
  - ⚠️ Delete apps (API support pending)

### Phase 2 (Planned)
- 🎯 APNS Auth Keys (resource defined, provider methods pending)
- 🎯 Android SHA Fingerprints (resource defined, provider methods pending)
- 🎯 Firebase Authentication configuration
- 🎯 Firestore Databases
- 🎯 Cloud Storage Buckets

### Phase 3 (Future)
- 🎯 Remote Config
- 🎯 App Check
- 🎯 Cloud Functions configuration
- 🎯 Cloud Messaging (FCM)
- 🎯 Realtime Database
- 🎯 Firebase Hosting
- 🎯 Cloud Firestore Indexes
