docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: DRFT - Dart Resource Framework Toolkit
description: Infrastructure-as-code toolkit for Dart. Declare, plan, and manage your infrastructure using type-safe Dart code.
---

# DRFT

**DRFT** (pronounced "drift") is an infrastructure-as-code toolkit written in Dart. It allows you to describe your infrastructure declaratively using Dart code, leveraging Dart's expressive syntax and type system.

## What is DRFT?

DRFT enables you to:

- **Declare infrastructure** using clean, type-safe Dart code
- **Compare states** between desired and actual infrastructure
- **Plan changes** before applying them
- **Execute changes** to bring infrastructure to the desired state
- **Manage state** to track infrastructure resources

## Quick Start

### Installation

Add DRFT to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  drft: ^0.1.0
```

### Basic Example

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';

void main() async {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'my-infrastructure',
    providers: [
      MockProvider(), // For testing
    ],
    resources: [
      // Your resources here
    ],
  );

  // Plan changes
  final plan = await stack.plan();
  print(plan.summary);

  // Apply changes
  final result = await stack.apply(plan);
  print(result.summary);
}
```

## Key Features

- **Type Safety**: Leverage Dart's strong typing for infrastructure definitions
- **Immutable Resources**: Flutter-style immutable resources with final properties
- **Clean Syntax**: Familiar Dart constructor syntax, just like Flutter widgets
- **State Management**: Automatic state tracking and comparison
- **Dependency Resolution**: Automatic handling of resource dependencies
- **Plan Before Apply**: Always see what will change before making changes
- **Extensible**: Easy to add new providers and resources
- **Idempotent**: Running the same configuration multiple times is safe

## Documentation

### Getting Started

- [Getting Started Guide](/getting-started) - Set up DRFT in your project
- [Examples](/examples) - Real-world examples and use cases

### Core Concepts

- [Core Concepts](/concepts) - Understanding DRFT fundamentals
- [Architecture](/architecture) - System design and components
- [Resources](/resources) - Understanding resources
- [Providers](/providers) - Working with providers
- [State Management](/resource-state-provider-relationship) - How state works

### Guides

- [Dependent Resources](/dependent-resources) - Managing resource dependencies
- [Creating Providers](/providers) - Building custom providers
- [Creating Resources](/resources) - Defining custom resources

### Provider Guides

- [Firebase Provider](/firebase-provider) - Configure Firebase resources
- [App Store Provider](/appstore-provider) - Manage App Store Connect resources

## Project Status

✅ **Phase 1 Complete** - Core framework is implemented and functional. Currently working on provider implementations.

## Why DRFT?

### For Dart/Flutter Developers

If you're already working with Dart and Flutter, DRFT feels natural. The syntax is familiar, the type system is the same, and you can leverage your existing Dart knowledge.

### Type Safety

Unlike configuration-based tools, DRFT provides compile-time type checking. Catch errors before they reach production.

### Clean Syntax

Define infrastructure the same way you define Flutter widgets - with clean, declarative constructors.

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'production',
  providers: [AwsProvider(region: 'us-east-1')],
  resources: [
    VirtualMachine(
      name: 'web-server',
      image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
      size: 'medium',
    ),
  ],
);
```

## Community

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft)
- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft/issues)
- [Discussions](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft/discussions)

## License

[To be determined]

Commit message:

chore: add BSD-3-Clause license files and update references
- Add LICENSE files to root and all packages
- Update README.md and docs/index.mdx to reference BSD-3-Clause license
- Use AppsUp as the organization name in license text

docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: DRFT - Dart Resource Framework Toolkit
description: Infrastructure-as-code toolkit for Dart. Declare, plan, and manage your infrastructure using type-safe Dart code.
---

# DRFT

**DRFT** (pronounced "drift") is an infrastructure-as-code toolkit written in Dart. It allows you to describe your infrastructure declaratively using Dart code, leveraging Dart's expressive syntax and type system.

## What is DRFT?

DRFT enables you to:

- **Declare infrastructure** using clean, type-safe Dart code
- **Compare states** between desired and actual infrastructure
- **Plan changes** before applying them
- **Execute changes** to bring infrastructure to the desired state
- **Manage state** to track infrastructure resources

## Quick Start

### Installation

Add DRFT to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  drft: ^0.1.0
```

### Basic Example

```dart
import 'package:drft/drft.dart';

void main() async {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'my-infrastructure',
    providers: [
      MockProvider(), // For testing
    ],
    resources: [
      // Your resources here
    ],
  );

  // Plan changes
  final plan = await stack.plan();
  print(plan.summary);

  // Apply changes
  final result = await stack.apply(plan);
  print(result.summary);
}
```

## Key Features

- **Type Safety**: Leverage Dart's strong typing for infrastructure definitions
- **Immutable Resources**: Flutter-style immutable resources with final properties
- **Clean Syntax**: Familiar Dart constructor syntax, just like Flutter widgets
- **State Management**: Automatic state tracking and comparison
- **Dependency Resolution**: Automatic handling of resource dependencies
- **Plan Before Apply**: Always see what will change before making changes
- **Extensible**: Easy to add new providers and resources
- **Idempotent**: Running the same configuration multiple times is safe

## Documentation

### Getting Started

- [Getting Started Guide](/getting-started) - Set up DRFT in your project
- [Examples](/examples) - Real-world examples and use cases

### Core Concepts

- [Core Concepts](/concepts) - Understanding DRFT fundamentals
- [Architecture](/architecture) - System design and components
- [Resources](/resources) - Understanding resources
- [Providers](/providers) - Working with providers
- [State Management](/resource-state-provider-relationship) - How state works

### Guides

- [Dependent Resources](/dependent-resources) - Managing resource dependencies
- [Creating Providers](/providers) - Building custom providers
- [Creating Resources](/resources) - Defining custom resources

### Provider Guides

- [Firebase Provider](/firebase-provider) - Configure Firebase resources
- [App Store Provider](/appstore-provider) - Manage App Store Connect resources

## Project Status

✅ **Phase 1 Complete** - Core framework is implemented and functional. Currently working on provider implementations.

## Why DRFT?

### For Dart/Flutter Developers

If you're already working with Dart and Flutter, DRFT feels natural. The syntax is familiar, the type system is the same, and you can leverage your existing Dart knowledge.

### Type Safety

Unlike configuration-based tools, DRFT provides compile-time type checking. Catch errors before they reach production.

### Clean Syntax

Define infrastructure the same way you define Flutter widgets - with clean, declarative constructors.

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'production',
  providers: [AwsProvider(region: 'us-east-1')],
  resources: [
    VirtualMachine(
      name: 'web-server',
      image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
      size: 'medium',
    ),
  ],
);
```

## Community

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft)
- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft/issues)
- [Discussions](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft/discussions)

## License

This project is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/appsup-dart/drft/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.
