docs/resources.mdx, before:

# Resource Development Guide

Resources are the building blocks of infrastructure in DRFT. This guide explains how to create and use resources.

## Resource Types

### Base Resource

All resources extend the `Resource` base class:

```dart
abstract class Resource {
  final String id;
  final String type;
  final Map<String, dynamic> properties;
  final List<String> dependencies;
  
  Resource({
    required this.id,
    required this.type,
    required this.properties,
    this.dependencies = const [],
  });
  
  void validate();
  Map<String, dynamic> toJson();
}
```

### Concrete Resources

Resources should be concrete classes with typed properties:

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String image;
  final String size;
  final String? subnetId;
  final List<String>? securityGroupIds;
  final Map<String, String>? tags;
  
  VirtualMachine({
    required this.name,
    required this.image,
    required this.size,
    this.subnetId,
    this.securityGroupIds,
    this.tags,
  }) : super(
    id: 'vm.$name',
    type: 'aws.ec2.instance',
    properties: {
      'name': name,
      'image': image,
      'size': size,
      'subnetId': subnetId,
      'securityGroupIds': securityGroupIds,
      'tags': tags,
    },
  );
  
  @override
  void validate() {
    if (name.isEmpty) {
      throw ValidationException('VM name cannot be empty');
    }
    if (!['small', 'medium', 'large'].contains(size)) {
      throw ValidationException('Invalid VM size: $size');
    }
  }
}
```

## Using Dart Syntax Features

### Immutable Resources with Constructor Parameters

Resources use final properties set via constructor parameters, similar to Flutter widgets:

```dart
final vm = VirtualMachine(
  name: 'web-server',
  image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
  size: 'medium',
  subnetId: subnet.id,
  securityGroupIds: [sg1.id, sg2.id],
  tags: {
    'Environment': 'production',
    'Role': 'web-server',
  },
);
```

### Complex Resources

For resources with many optional parameters, use named parameters with sensible defaults:

```dart
final database = Database(
  name: 'app-db',
  engine: 'postgresql',
  version: '14',
  instanceClass: 'db.t3.medium',
  storage: 100,
  backupRetention: 7,
  multiAz: true,
  publiclyAccessible: false,
  subnetGroup: dbSubnetGroup.id,
  securityGroups: [dbSecurityGroup.id],
  tags: {
    'Environment': 'production',
    'Backup': 'enabled',
  },
);
```

### Named Constructors for Common Patterns

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  // Standard constructor
  VirtualMachine({/* ... */});
  
  // Named constructor for common configurations
  VirtualMachine.production({
    required String name,
    required String image,
  }) : this(
    name: name,
    image: image,
    size: 'large',
    tags: {'Environment': 'production'},
  );
  
  VirtualMachine.development({
    required String name,
    required String image,
  }) : this(
    name: name,
    image: image,
    size: 'small',
    tags: {'Environment': 'development'},
  );
}
```

## Resource Dependencies

### Explicit Dependencies

```dart
final network = Network(name: 'main-network');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'public-subnet',
  networkId: network.id,
  cidr: '10.0.1.0/24',
  dependsOn: [network.id], // Explicit dependency (if needed)
);
```

### Implicit Dependencies

DRFT automatically detects dependencies when resources reference each other:

```dart
final network = Network(name: 'main-network');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'public-subnet',
  networkId: network.id, // Implicit dependency detected
);
```

### Dependency Resolution

```dart
class Resource {
  List<String> get implicitDependencies {
    final deps = <String>[];
    
    // Scan properties for resource references
    for (final value in properties.values) {
      if (value is ResourceReference) {
        deps.add(value.resourceId);
      } else if (value is List) {
        for (final item in value) {
          if (item is ResourceReference) {
            deps.add(item.resourceId);
          }
        }
      }
    }
    
    return deps;
  }
  
  List<String> get allDependencies {
    return [...dependencies, ...implicitDependencies];
  }
}
```

## Common Resource Patterns

### Compute Resources

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String image;
  final String size;
  final String? subnetId;
  final List<String>? securityGroupIds;
  final String? userData;
  final Map<String, String>? tags;
  
  VirtualMachine({
    required this.name,
    required this.image,
    required this.size,
    this.subnetId,
    this.securityGroupIds,
    this.userData,
    this.tags,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class Container extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String image;
  final int? replicas;
  final Map<String, String>? environment;
  final List<Port>? ports;
  
  Container({
    required this.name,
    required this.image,
    this.replicas,
    this.environment,
    this.ports,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}
```

### Storage Resources

```dart
class Database extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String engine;
  final String version;
  final String instanceClass;
  final int storage;
  final int? backupRetention;
  final bool multiAz;
  final String? subnetGroup;
  final List<String>? securityGroups;
  
  Database({
    required this.name,
    required this.engine,
    required this.version,
    required this.instanceClass,
    required this.storage,
    this.backupRetention,
    this.multiAz = false,
    this.subnetGroup,
    this.securityGroups,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class ObjectStorage extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String? region;
  final bool? versioning;
  final String? encryption;
  
  ObjectStorage({
    required this.name,
    this.region,
    this.versioning,
    this.encryption,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}
```

### Network Resources

```dart
class Network extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String cidr;
  final Map<String, String>? tags;
  
  Network({
    required this.name,
    required this.cidr,
    this.tags,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class Subnet extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String networkId;
  final String cidr;
  final String? availabilityZone;
  
  Subnet({
    required this.name,
    required this.networkId,
    required this.cidr,
    this.availabilityZone,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class SecurityGroup extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String networkId;
  final List<IngressRule>? ingressRules;
  final List<EgressRule>? egressRules;
  
  SecurityGroup({
    required this.name,
    required this.networkId,
    this.ingressRules,
    this.egressRules,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}
```

## Resource Validation

Resources should validate their properties:

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  @override
  void validate() {
    if (name.isEmpty) {
      throw ValidationException('VM name cannot be empty');
    }
    
    if (!RegExp(r'^[a-z0-9-]+$').hasMatch(name)) {
      throw ValidationException(
        'VM name must contain only lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens',
      );
    }
    
    if (!['small', 'medium', 'large', 'xlarge'].contains(size)) {
      throw ValidationException('Invalid VM size: $size');
    }
    
    if (subnetId != null && !subnetId!.startsWith('subnet.')) {
      throw ValidationException('Invalid subnet ID format');
    }
  }
}
```

## Resource Serialization

Resources must be serializable for state management:

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  @override
  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() {
    return {
      'id': id,
      'type': type,
      'properties': {
        'name': name,
        'image': image,
        'size': size,
        'subnetId': subnetId,
        'securityGroupIds': securityGroupIds,
        'tags': tags,
      },
      'dependencies': dependencies,
    };
  }
  
  factory VirtualMachine.fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) {
    final props = json['properties'] as Map<String, dynamic>;
    return VirtualMachine(
      name: props['name'] as String,
      image: props['image'] as String,
      size: props['size'] as String,
      subnetId: props['subnetId'] as String?,
      securityGroupIds: (props['securityGroupIds'] as List?)?.cast<String>(),
      tags: (props['tags'] as Map?)?.cast<String, String>(),
    );
  }
}
```

## Resource References

Use resource references to link resources:

```dart
class ResourceReference {
  final String resourceId;
  final String? attribute;
  
  ResourceReference(this.resourceId, [this.attribute]);
  
  String get value {
    // Resolve reference at runtime
    return _resolveReference();
  }
}

// Usage
final network = Network(name: 'main-network');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'public-subnet',
  networkId: network.id, // Direct reference
);
```

## Example: Complete Infrastructure

```dart
void main() {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'web-application',
    providers: [
      AwsProvider(region: 'us-east-1'),
    ],
    resources: [
      // Network
      Vpc(
        name: 'main-vpc',
        cidr: '10.0.0.0/16',
        tags: {'Environment': 'production'},
      ),
      
      // Subnets
      Subnet(
        name: 'public-1',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        cidr: '10.0.1.0/24',
        availabilityZone: 'us-east-1a',
      ),
      Subnet(
        name: 'public-2',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        cidr: '10.0.2.0/24',
        availabilityZone: 'us-east-1b',
      ),
      
      // Security Groups
      SecurityGroup(
        name: 'web-sg',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        ingressRules: [
          IngressRule(port: 80, protocol: 'tcp', source: '0.0.0.0/0'),
          IngressRule(port: 443, protocol: 'tcp', source: '0.0.0.0/0'),
        ],
      ),
      
      SecurityGroup(
        name: 'db-sg',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        ingressRules: [
          IngressRule(port: 5432, protocol: 'tcp', source: '10.0.0.0/16'),
        ],
      ),
      
      // Load Balancer
      LoadBalancer(
        name: 'web-lb',
        subnets: [subnet1.id, subnet2.id],
        securityGroups: [webSg.id],
        listeners: [
          Listener(port: 80, protocol: 'http'),
          Listener(port: 443, protocol: 'https'),
        ],
      ),
      
      // Virtual Machines
      VirtualMachine(
        name: 'web-1',
        image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
        size: 'medium',
        subnetId: subnet1.id,
        securityGroupIds: [webSg.id],
        tags: {'Role': 'web-server'},
      ),
      
      VirtualMachine(
        name: 'web-2',
        image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
        size: 'medium',
        subnetId: subnet2.id,
        securityGroupIds: [webSg.id],
        tags: {'Role': 'web-server'},
      ),
      
      // Database
      Database(
        name: 'app-db',
        engine: 'postgresql',
        version: '14',
        instanceClass: 'db.t3.medium',
        storage: 100,
        backupRetention: 7,
        multiAz: true,
        subnetGroup: dbSubnetGroup.id,
        securityGroups: [dbSg.id],
        tags: {'Environment': 'production'},
      ),
    ],
  );
}
```

## Data Sources (Read-Only External Resources)

Some resources represent external infrastructure that cannot be created, updated, or deleted through DRFT. These are called **read-only resources** and can be marked using either the `ReadOnlyResource` base class or the `ReadOnly` mixin.

### When to Use Data Sources

Data sources are appropriate for:
- Resources managed outside DRFT (e.g., Firebase projects created via Console)
- External APIs that provide reference data
- Existing infrastructure that should not be modified
- Resources that other resources depend on for information

### Implementing a Data Source

#### Option 1: Extend ReadOnlyResource

Extend `ReadOnlyResource` instead of `Resource`:

```dart
class FirebaseProjectState extends ResourceState {
  FirebaseProjectState({required super.resource});
}

class FirebaseProject extends ReadOnlyResource<FirebaseProjectState> {
  final String projectId;
  final String displayName;

  const FirebaseProject({
    required String id,
    required this.projectId,
    required this.displayName,
    List<Resource> dependencies = const [],
  }) : super(
          id: id,
          dependencies: dependencies,
        );
}
```

#### Option 2: Use ReadOnly Mixin

If your resource extends a base class (e.g., for typed provider support), use the `ReadOnly` mixin:

```dart
/// Base class for Firebase resources (for typed provider)
abstract class FirebaseResource extends Resource<ResourceState> {
  const FirebaseResource({
    required super.id,
    super.dependencies = const [],
  });
}

/// Firebase Project with ReadOnly mixin
class FirebaseProject extends FirebaseResource with ReadOnly {
  final String projectId;
  final String displayName;
  
  const FirebaseProject({
    required String id,
    required this.projectId,
    required this.displayName,
    List<Resource> dependencies = const [],
  }) : super(id: id);
}
```

Both approaches are automatically detected by the planner and executor, so no additional configuration is needed.

### How Data Sources Work

1. **Planning**: Data sources are never included in create, update, or delete operations
2. **Reading**: Data sources are read to verify they exist and get current state
3. **Dependencies**: Other resources can depend on data sources normally
4. **Refresh**: Data sources are refreshed during state refresh operations

### Example Usage

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'my-stack',
  providers: [FirebaseProvider()],
  resources: [
    // Data source - cannot be created/updated/deleted
    FirebaseProject(
      id: 'project',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',  // Must exist externally
      displayName: 'My Project',
    ),
    
    // Regular resource - depends on data source
    FirebaseApp(
      id: 'ios-app',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',  // References the project
      platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
      displayName: 'iOS App',
      bundleId: 'com.example.app',
    ),
  ],
);

// Plan will only include operations for FirebaseApp
// FirebaseProject will be read to verify it exists
final plan = await stack.plan();
```

### Provider Implementation

Providers must implement `readResource` for read-only resources to verify they exist externally:

```dart
@override
Future<ResourceState> readResource(Resource resource) async {
  if (resource is FirebaseProject) {
    // Verify the project exists in Firebase
    final project = await _firebaseManagement.projects.getProject(
      resource.projectId,
    );
    
    if (project == null) {
      throw ResourceNotFoundException(resource.projectId);
    }
    
    return FirebaseProjectState(
      resource: resource,
    );
  }
  // ... handle other resources
}
```

Note: Providers do **not** need to handle `createResource`, `updateResource`, or `deleteResource` for read-only resources, as the planner and executor guarantee these methods will never be called for resources with the `ReadOnly` mixin or `ReadOnlyResource` instances.

## Best Practices

1. **Immutability**: Resources should be immutable with final properties
2. **Type Safety**: Use strong typing for all properties
3. **Validation**: Validate all inputs in the `validate()` method
4. **Defaults**: Provide sensible defaults where appropriate
5. **Documentation**: Document all properties and their purposes
6. **Serialization**: Ensure proper JSON serialization/deserialization
7. **Dependencies**: Make dependencies explicit and clear
8. **Flutter-style**: Follow Flutter widget patterns for familiarity
9. **Data Sources**: Use `ReadOnlyResource` or the `ReadOnly` mixin for read-only external resources

Commit message:

docs: reframe documentation as resource management framework
- Update documentation to present DRFT as a general resource management framework
- Keep IaC as an important use case but not the primary focus
- Add name explanation: DRFT = Dart Resource Framework Toolkit, "drift" refers to infrastructure drift
- Remove duplicate content (use cases section from concepts.mdx)
- Update language throughout to emphasize broader applicability beyond infrastructure
- Add examples showing diverse use cases (application config, project setup)

docs/resources.mdx, after:

# Resource Development Guide

Resources are the building blocks of stacks in DRFT. This guide explains how to create and use resources for managing any type of declarative resource.

## Resource Types

### Base Resource

All resources extend the `Resource` base class:

```dart
abstract class Resource {
  final String id;
  final String type;
  final Map<String, dynamic> properties;
  final List<String> dependencies;
  
  Resource({
    required this.id,
    required this.type,
    required this.properties,
    this.dependencies = const [],
  });
  
  void validate();
  Map<String, dynamic> toJson();
}
```

### Concrete Resources

Resources should be concrete classes with typed properties:

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String image;
  final String size;
  final String? subnetId;
  final List<String>? securityGroupIds;
  final Map<String, String>? tags;
  
  VirtualMachine({
    required this.name,
    required this.image,
    required this.size,
    this.subnetId,
    this.securityGroupIds,
    this.tags,
  }) : super(
    id: 'vm.$name',
    type: 'aws.ec2.instance',
    properties: {
      'name': name,
      'image': image,
      'size': size,
      'subnetId': subnetId,
      'securityGroupIds': securityGroupIds,
      'tags': tags,
    },
  );
  
  @override
  void validate() {
    if (name.isEmpty) {
      throw ValidationException('VM name cannot be empty');
    }
    if (!['small', 'medium', 'large'].contains(size)) {
      throw ValidationException('Invalid VM size: $size');
    }
  }
}
```

## Using Dart Syntax Features

### Immutable Resources with Constructor Parameters

Resources use final properties set via constructor parameters, similar to Flutter widgets:

```dart
final vm = VirtualMachine(
  name: 'web-server',
  image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
  size: 'medium',
  subnetId: subnet.id,
  securityGroupIds: [sg1.id, sg2.id],
  tags: {
    'Environment': 'production',
    'Role': 'web-server',
  },
);
```

### Complex Resources

For resources with many optional parameters, use named parameters with sensible defaults:

```dart
final database = Database(
  name: 'app-db',
  engine: 'postgresql',
  version: '14',
  instanceClass: 'db.t3.medium',
  storage: 100,
  backupRetention: 7,
  multiAz: true,
  publiclyAccessible: false,
  subnetGroup: dbSubnetGroup.id,
  securityGroups: [dbSecurityGroup.id],
  tags: {
    'Environment': 'production',
    'Backup': 'enabled',
  },
);
```

### Named Constructors for Common Patterns

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  // Standard constructor
  VirtualMachine({/* ... */});
  
  // Named constructor for common configurations
  VirtualMachine.production({
    required String name,
    required String image,
  }) : this(
    name: name,
    image: image,
    size: 'large',
    tags: {'Environment': 'production'},
  );
  
  VirtualMachine.development({
    required String name,
    required String image,
  }) : this(
    name: name,
    image: image,
    size: 'small',
    tags: {'Environment': 'development'},
  );
}
```

## Resource Dependencies

### Explicit Dependencies

```dart
final network = Network(name: 'main-network');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'public-subnet',
  networkId: network.id,
  cidr: '10.0.1.0/24',
  dependsOn: [network.id], // Explicit dependency (if needed)
);
```

### Implicit Dependencies

DRFT automatically detects dependencies when resources reference each other:

```dart
final network = Network(name: 'main-network');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'public-subnet',
  networkId: network.id, // Implicit dependency detected
);
```

### Dependency Resolution

```dart
class Resource {
  List<String> get implicitDependencies {
    final deps = <String>[];
    
    // Scan properties for resource references
    for (final value in properties.values) {
      if (value is ResourceReference) {
        deps.add(value.resourceId);
      } else if (value is List) {
        for (final item in value) {
          if (item is ResourceReference) {
            deps.add(item.resourceId);
          }
        }
      }
    }
    
    return deps;
  }
  
  List<String> get allDependencies {
    return [...dependencies, ...implicitDependencies];
  }
}
```

## Common Resource Patterns

### Compute Resources

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String image;
  final String size;
  final String? subnetId;
  final List<String>? securityGroupIds;
  final String? userData;
  final Map<String, String>? tags;
  
  VirtualMachine({
    required this.name,
    required this.image,
    required this.size,
    this.subnetId,
    this.securityGroupIds,
    this.userData,
    this.tags,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class Container extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String image;
  final int? replicas;
  final Map<String, String>? environment;
  final List<Port>? ports;
  
  Container({
    required this.name,
    required this.image,
    this.replicas,
    this.environment,
    this.ports,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}
```

### Storage Resources

```dart
class Database extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String engine;
  final String version;
  final String instanceClass;
  final int storage;
  final int? backupRetention;
  final bool multiAz;
  final String? subnetGroup;
  final List<String>? securityGroups;
  
  Database({
    required this.name,
    required this.engine,
    required this.version,
    required this.instanceClass,
    required this.storage,
    this.backupRetention,
    this.multiAz = false,
    this.subnetGroup,
    this.securityGroups,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class ObjectStorage extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String? region;
  final bool? versioning;
  final String? encryption;
  
  ObjectStorage({
    required this.name,
    this.region,
    this.versioning,
    this.encryption,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}
```

### Network Resources

```dart
class Network extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String cidr;
  final Map<String, String>? tags;
  
  Network({
    required this.name,
    required this.cidr,
    this.tags,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class Subnet extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String networkId;
  final String cidr;
  final String? availabilityZone;
  
  Subnet({
    required this.name,
    required this.networkId,
    required this.cidr,
    this.availabilityZone,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}

class SecurityGroup extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String networkId;
  final List<IngressRule>? ingressRules;
  final List<EgressRule>? egressRules;
  
  SecurityGroup({
    required this.name,
    required this.networkId,
    this.ingressRules,
    this.egressRules,
  }) : super(/* ... */);
}
```

## Resource Validation

Resources should validate their properties:

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  @override
  void validate() {
    if (name.isEmpty) {
      throw ValidationException('VM name cannot be empty');
    }
    
    if (!RegExp(r'^[a-z0-9-]+$').hasMatch(name)) {
      throw ValidationException(
        'VM name must contain only lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens',
      );
    }
    
    if (!['small', 'medium', 'large', 'xlarge'].contains(size)) {
      throw ValidationException('Invalid VM size: $size');
    }
    
    if (subnetId != null && !subnetId!.startsWith('subnet.')) {
      throw ValidationException('Invalid subnet ID format');
    }
  }
}
```

## Resource Serialization

Resources must be serializable for state management:

```dart
class VirtualMachine extends Resource {
  @override
  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() {
    return {
      'id': id,
      'type': type,
      'properties': {
        'name': name,
        'image': image,
        'size': size,
        'subnetId': subnetId,
        'securityGroupIds': securityGroupIds,
        'tags': tags,
      },
      'dependencies': dependencies,
    };
  }
  
  factory VirtualMachine.fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) {
    final props = json['properties'] as Map<String, dynamic>;
    return VirtualMachine(
      name: props['name'] as String,
      image: props['image'] as String,
      size: props['size'] as String,
      subnetId: props['subnetId'] as String?,
      securityGroupIds: (props['securityGroupIds'] as List?)?.cast<String>(),
      tags: (props['tags'] as Map?)?.cast<String, String>(),
    );
  }
}
```

## Resource References

Use resource references to link resources:

```dart
class ResourceReference {
  final String resourceId;
  final String? attribute;
  
  ResourceReference(this.resourceId, [this.attribute]);
  
  String get value {
    // Resolve reference at runtime
    return _resolveReference();
  }
}

// Usage
final network = Network(name: 'main-network');
final subnet = Subnet(
  name: 'public-subnet',
  networkId: network.id, // Direct reference
);
```

## Example: Complete Stack

```dart
void main() {
  final stack = DrftStack(
    name: 'web-application',
    providers: [
      AwsProvider(region: 'us-east-1'),
    ],
    resources: [
      // Network
      Vpc(
        name: 'main-vpc',
        cidr: '10.0.0.0/16',
        tags: {'Environment': 'production'},
      ),
      
      // Subnets
      Subnet(
        name: 'public-1',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        cidr: '10.0.1.0/24',
        availabilityZone: 'us-east-1a',
      ),
      Subnet(
        name: 'public-2',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        cidr: '10.0.2.0/24',
        availabilityZone: 'us-east-1b',
      ),
      
      // Security Groups
      SecurityGroup(
        name: 'web-sg',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        ingressRules: [
          IngressRule(port: 80, protocol: 'tcp', source: '0.0.0.0/0'),
          IngressRule(port: 443, protocol: 'tcp', source: '0.0.0.0/0'),
        ],
      ),
      
      SecurityGroup(
        name: 'db-sg',
        vpcId: vpc.id,
        ingressRules: [
          IngressRule(port: 5432, protocol: 'tcp', source: '10.0.0.0/16'),
        ],
      ),
      
      // Load Balancer
      LoadBalancer(
        name: 'web-lb',
        subnets: [subnet1.id, subnet2.id],
        securityGroups: [webSg.id],
        listeners: [
          Listener(port: 80, protocol: 'http'),
          Listener(port: 443, protocol: 'https'),
        ],
      ),
      
      // Virtual Machines
      VirtualMachine(
        name: 'web-1',
        image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
        size: 'medium',
        subnetId: subnet1.id,
        securityGroupIds: [webSg.id],
        tags: {'Role': 'web-server'},
      ),
      
      VirtualMachine(
        name: 'web-2',
        image: 'ubuntu-22.04',
        size: 'medium',
        subnetId: subnet2.id,
        securityGroupIds: [webSg.id],
        tags: {'Role': 'web-server'},
      ),
      
      // Database
      Database(
        name: 'app-db',
        engine: 'postgresql',
        version: '14',
        instanceClass: 'db.t3.medium',
        storage: 100,
        backupRetention: 7,
        multiAz: true,
        subnetGroup: dbSubnetGroup.id,
        securityGroups: [dbSg.id],
        tags: {'Environment': 'production'},
      ),
    ],
  );
}
```

## Data Sources (Read-Only External Resources)

Some resources represent external infrastructure that cannot be created, updated, or deleted through DRFT. These are called **read-only resources** and can be marked using either the `ReadOnlyResource` base class or the `ReadOnly` mixin.

### When to Use Data Sources

Data sources are appropriate for:
- Resources managed outside DRFT (e.g., Firebase projects created via Console)
- External APIs that provide reference data
- Existing infrastructure that should not be modified
- Resources that other resources depend on for information

### Implementing a Data Source

#### Option 1: Extend ReadOnlyResource

Extend `ReadOnlyResource` instead of `Resource`:

```dart
class FirebaseProjectState extends ResourceState {
  FirebaseProjectState({required super.resource});
}

class FirebaseProject extends ReadOnlyResource<FirebaseProjectState> {
  final String projectId;
  final String displayName;

  const FirebaseProject({
    required String id,
    required this.projectId,
    required this.displayName,
    List<Resource> dependencies = const [],
  }) : super(
          id: id,
          dependencies: dependencies,
        );
}
```

#### Option 2: Use ReadOnly Mixin

If your resource extends a base class (e.g., for typed provider support), use the `ReadOnly` mixin:

```dart
/// Base class for Firebase resources (for typed provider)
abstract class FirebaseResource extends Resource<ResourceState> {
  const FirebaseResource({
    required super.id,
    super.dependencies = const [],
  });
}

/// Firebase Project with ReadOnly mixin
class FirebaseProject extends FirebaseResource with ReadOnly {
  final String projectId;
  final String displayName;
  
  const FirebaseProject({
    required String id,
    required this.projectId,
    required this.displayName,
    List<Resource> dependencies = const [],
  }) : super(id: id);
}
```

Both approaches are automatically detected by the planner and executor, so no additional configuration is needed.

### How Data Sources Work

1. **Planning**: Data sources are never included in create, update, or delete operations
2. **Reading**: Data sources are read to verify they exist and get current state
3. **Dependencies**: Other resources can depend on data sources normally
4. **Refresh**: Data sources are refreshed during state refresh operations

### Example Usage

```dart
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'my-stack',
  providers: [FirebaseProvider()],
  resources: [
    // Data source - cannot be created/updated/deleted
    FirebaseProject(
      id: 'project',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',  // Must exist externally
      displayName: 'My Project',
    ),
    
    // Regular resource - depends on data source
    FirebaseApp(
      id: 'ios-app',
      projectId: 'my-project-id',  // References the project
      platform: FirebaseAppPlatform.ios,
      displayName: 'iOS App',
      bundleId: 'com.example.app',
    ),
  ],
);

// Plan will only include operations for FirebaseApp
// FirebaseProject will be read to verify it exists
final plan = await stack.plan();
```

### Provider Implementation

Providers must implement `readResource` for read-only resources to verify they exist externally:

```dart
@override
Future<ResourceState> readResource(Resource resource) async {
  if (resource is FirebaseProject) {
    // Verify the project exists in Firebase
    final project = await _firebaseManagement.projects.getProject(
      resource.projectId,
    );
    
    if (project == null) {
      throw ResourceNotFoundException(resource.projectId);
    }
    
    return FirebaseProjectState(
      resource: resource,
    );
  }
  // ... handle other resources
}
```

Note: Providers do **not** need to handle `createResource`, `updateResource`, or `deleteResource` for read-only resources, as the planner and executor guarantee these methods will never be called for resources with the `ReadOnly` mixin or `ReadOnlyResource` instances.

## Best Practices

1. **Immutability**: Resources should be immutable with final properties
2. **Type Safety**: Use strong typing for all properties
3. **Validation**: Validate all inputs in the `validate()` method
4. **Defaults**: Provide sensible defaults where appropriate
5. **Documentation**: Document all properties and their purposes
6. **Serialization**: Ensure proper JSON serialization/deserialization
7. **Dependencies**: Make dependencies explicit and clear
8. **Flutter-style**: Follow Flutter widget patterns for familiarity
9. **Data Sources**: Use `ReadOnlyResource` or the `ReadOnly` mixin for read-only external resources
