docs/resource-state-provider-relationship.mdx, before:

# Resource, ResourceState, and Provider Relationship

This document explains the relationship between the three core concepts in DRFT: **Resource**, **ResourceState**, and **Provider**.

## Overview

These three concepts work together to manage infrastructure:

- **Resource**: Represents the *desired* state of infrastructure (what you want)
- **ResourceState**: Represents the *actual* state of infrastructure (what exists)
- **Provider**: The bridge that translates between Resources and actual infrastructure

```
┌─────────────┐         ┌──────────────┐         ┌─────────────┐
│  Resource   │─────────▶│   Provider   │─────────▶│ Infrastructure│
│ (Desired)   │         │  (Translator) │         │  (Actual)   │
└─────────────┘         └──────────────┘         └─────────────┘
      │                         │                        │
      │                         │                        │
      └─────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┘
                                 │
                                 ▼
                          ┌──────────────┐
                          │ ResourceState │
                          │   (Actual)   │
                          └──────────────┘
```

## Resource

A **Resource** is an immutable Dart class that represents the *desired* state of a piece of infrastructure. It defines:

- **What** you want to create
- **Properties** that describe the desired configuration
- **Dependencies** on other resources

### Characteristics

- **Immutable**: Once created, a Resource cannot be modified
- **Type-safe**: Uses Dart's type system for safety
- **Declarative**: Describes *what* you want, not *how* to create it
- **Generic over StateType**: `Resource<StateType>` allows type-safe access to state

### Example

```dart
class Database extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String engine;
  final int? port;

  const Database({
    required String id,
    required this.name,
    required this.engine,
    this.port,
    List<Resource> dependencies = const [],
  }) : super(
          id: id,
          dependencies: dependencies,
        );
}

// Usage: Define what you want
final database = Database(
  id: 'db.main',
  name: 'main_database',
  engine: 'postgresql',
  port: 5432,
);
```

## ResourceState

A **ResourceState** represents the *actual* state of infrastructure after it has been created or read from the provider. It contains:

- **Read-only properties**: Values assigned by the provider (e.g., IDs, URLs)
- **Current configuration**: The actual properties of the resource
- **Metadata**: Additional information about the resource
- **Reference to Resource**: The original Resource that created this state (optional)

### Characteristics

- **Immutable**: Once created, a ResourceState cannot be modified
- **Provider-created**: Providers create ResourceState instances when resources are created/updated
- **Typed subclasses**: Can extend ResourceState for type-safe property access
- **Serializable**: Can be saved to and loaded from JSON

### Example

```dart
// Typed ResourceState for type-safe access
class DatabaseState extends ResourceState {
  final String name;
  final String engine;
  final int? port;
  final String connectionString; // Read-only property from provider

  DatabaseState({
    required super.resourceId,
    required super.resourceType,
    required this.name,
    required this.engine,
    this.port,
    required this.connectionString, // Provider assigns this
    super.metadata,
    super.resource,
  });
}
```

## Provider

A **Provider** is responsible for:

1. **Translating** Resources into actual infrastructure
2. **Creating** resources via API calls
3. **Reading** current state from infrastructure
4. **Updating** existing resources
5. **Deleting** resources

### Characteristics

- **Platform-specific**: Each provider handles a specific platform (AWS, Firebase, etc.)
- **State creator**: Creates ResourceState instances after operations
- **Resource handler**: Determines which resources it can manage

### Example

```dart
class DatabaseProvider extends Provider {
  @override
  Future<ResourceState> createResource(Resource resource) async {
    final db = resource as Database;
    
    // Call actual API to create database
    final apiResult = await api.createDatabase(
      name: db.name,
      engine: db.engine,
      port: db.port,
    );
    
    // Return ResourceState with read-only properties
    return DatabaseState(
      resourceId: db.id,
      resourceType: 'Database',
      name: db.name,
      engine: db.engine,
      port: db.port,
      connectionString: apiResult.connectionString, // From API
      resource: db,
    );
  }
}
```

## The Relationship Flow

### 1. Planning Phase

```
Resource (Desired)  →  Compare  →  ResourceState (Actual)
     │                                    │
     │                                    │
     └────────────────────────────────────┘
                    │
                    ▼
              Plan Operations
```

1. **Desired State**: Created from Resources in your Dart code
2. **Actual State**: Loaded from state file (contains ResourceState instances)
3. **Comparison**: Planner compares Resource properties with ResourceState properties
4. **Plan**: Generates operations (create, update, delete)

### 2. Execution Phase

```
Resource → Provider → Infrastructure → ResourceState
   │         │             │                │
   │         │             │                │
   └─────────┴─────────────┴────────────────┘
                    │
                    ▼
            Saved to State File
```

1. **Resource** is passed to **Provider**
2. **Provider** calls actual infrastructure API
3. Infrastructure is created/updated/deleted
4. **Provider** creates **ResourceState** with actual values
5. **ResourceState** is saved to state file

### 3. State Persistence

```
ResourceState → JSON → State File → JSON → ResourceState
```

ResourceState instances are serialized to JSON and persisted in the state file. When loaded, they're deserialized back to ResourceState instances.

## Key Concepts

### Resource → ResourceState Transformation

When a Provider creates a resource, it transforms a Resource (desired) into a ResourceState (actual):

```dart
// Input: Resource (what you want)
final resource = Database(
  id: 'db.main',
  name: 'main_database',
  engine: 'postgresql',
);

// Provider creates infrastructure and returns ResourceState
final state = await provider.createResource(resource);

// Output: ResourceState (what exists)
// state.connectionString is now available (read-only from provider)
```

### Read-Only Properties

Some properties only exist in ResourceState because they're assigned by the provider:

```dart
// Resource: You define what you can
class AppStoreBundleId extends Resource<AppStoreBundleIdState> {
  final String name;      // You define this
  final String platform;  // You define this
  // bundleId is NOT here - App Store assigns it!
}

// ResourceState: Provider adds read-only properties
class AppStoreBundleIdState extends ResourceState {
  final String name;      // From Resource
  final String platform;  // From Resource
  final String bundleId;  // Read-only: Assigned by App Store!
}
```

### State Comparison

The Planner compares Resources with ResourceStates:

- **Only Resource properties** are compared (not read-only state properties)
- If Resource properties match ResourceState properties → No change needed
- If they differ → Update operation
- If Resource exists but no ResourceState → Create operation
- If ResourceState exists but no Resource → Delete operation

```dart
// Resource defines: name, engine, port
final desired = Database(id: 'db.main', name: 'db', engine: 'postgresql', port: 5432);

// ResourceState has: name, engine, port, connectionString
final actual = DatabaseState(..., name: 'db', engine: 'mysql', port: 5432, ...);

// Comparison: Only compares name, engine, port (not connectionString)
// Result: engine differs → Update operation needed
```

## Lifecycle Example

Here's a complete example showing the lifecycle:

```dart
// 1. Define desired state (Resource)
final database = Database(
  id: 'db.main',
  name: 'main_database',
  engine: 'postgresql',
  port: 5432,
);

// 2. Create stack with provider
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'my-stack',
  providers: [DatabaseProvider()],
  resources: [database],
);

// 3. Plan: Compare Resource with actual ResourceState
final plan = await stack.plan();
// If database doesn't exist: Plan shows CREATE operation

// 4. Apply: Provider creates infrastructure
final result = await stack.apply(plan);
// Provider.createResource(database) is called
// → API call creates database
// → Provider returns DatabaseState with connectionString

// 5. State is saved
// ResourceState is serialized and saved to .drft/state.json

// 6. Next plan: ResourceState is loaded and compared
final plan2 = await stack.plan();
// Resource properties match ResourceState properties
// → Plan shows no changes needed
```

## Type Safety

Resources are generic over their StateType:

```dart
// Resource knows what StateType it produces
class Database extends Resource<DatabaseState> {
  // ...
}

// This enables type-safe access to state properties
final state = await provider.createResource(database);
// state is DatabaseState, so you can access:
final connectionString = state.connectionString; // Type-safe!
```

## Summary

| Concept | Represents | Created By | Contains |
|---------|-----------|-----------|----------|
| **Resource** | Desired state | Developer (Dart code) | Configuration properties |
| **ResourceState** | Actual state | Provider (after API call) | Configuration + read-only properties |
| **Provider** | Translation layer | Provider developer | Logic to manage infrastructure |

**The Flow:**
1. Developer defines **Resource** (desired state)
2. Planner compares **Resource** with **ResourceState** (actual state)
3. Executor passes **Resource** to **Provider**
4. **Provider** creates/updates infrastructure
5. **Provider** returns **ResourceState** (with actual values)
6. **ResourceState** is saved to state file

This separation allows DRFT to:
- **Plan** changes before applying them
- **Track** actual infrastructure state
- **Compare** desired vs actual
- **Support** multiple providers for different platforms

Commit message:

docs: reframe documentation as resource management framework
- Update documentation to present DRFT as a general resource management framework
- Keep IaC as an important use case but not the primary focus
- Add name explanation: DRFT = Dart Resource Framework Toolkit, "drift" refers to infrastructure drift
- Remove duplicate content (use cases section from concepts.mdx)
- Update language throughout to emphasize broader applicability beyond infrastructure
- Add examples showing diverse use cases (application config, project setup)

docs/resource-state-provider-relationship.mdx, after:

# Resource, ResourceState, and Provider Relationship

This document explains the relationship between the three core concepts in DRFT: **Resource**, **ResourceState**, and **Provider**.

## Overview

These three concepts work together to manage resources:

- **Resource**: Represents the *desired* state of a resource (what you want)
- **ResourceState**: Represents the *actual* state of a resource (what exists)
- **Provider**: The bridge that translates between Resources and the actual managed systems

```
┌─────────────┐         ┌──────────────┐         ┌─────────────┐
│  Resource   │─────────▶│   Provider   │─────────▶│   System    │
│ (Desired)   │         │  (Translator) │         │  (Actual)   │
└─────────────┘         └──────────────┘         └─────────────┘
      │                         │                        │
      │                         │                        │
      └─────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┘
                                 │
                                 ▼
                          ┌──────────────┐
                          │ ResourceState │
                          │   (Actual)   │
                          └──────────────┘
```

## Resource

A **Resource** is an immutable Dart class that represents the *desired* state of a resource. It defines:

- **What** you want to create
- **Properties** that describe the desired configuration
- **Dependencies** on other resources

### Characteristics

- **Immutable**: Once created, a Resource cannot be modified
- **Type-safe**: Uses Dart's type system for safety
- **Declarative**: Describes *what* you want, not *how* to create it
- **Generic over StateType**: `Resource<StateType>` allows type-safe access to state

### Example

```dart
class Database extends Resource {
  final String name;
  final String engine;
  final int? port;

  const Database({
    required String id,
    required this.name,
    required this.engine,
    this.port,
    List<Resource> dependencies = const [],
  }) : super(
          id: id,
          dependencies: dependencies,
        );
}

// Usage: Define what you want
final database = Database(
  id: 'db.main',
  name: 'main_database',
  engine: 'postgresql',
  port: 5432,
);
```

## ResourceState

A **ResourceState** represents the *actual* state of a resource after it has been created or read from the provider. It contains:

- **Read-only properties**: Values assigned by the provider (e.g., IDs, URLs)
- **Current configuration**: The actual properties of the resource
- **Metadata**: Additional information about the resource
- **Reference to Resource**: The original Resource that created this state (optional)

### Characteristics

- **Immutable**: Once created, a ResourceState cannot be modified
- **Provider-created**: Providers create ResourceState instances when resources are created/updated
- **Typed subclasses**: Can extend ResourceState for type-safe property access
- **Serializable**: Can be saved to and loaded from JSON

### Example

```dart
// Typed ResourceState for type-safe access
class DatabaseState extends ResourceState {
  final String name;
  final String engine;
  final int? port;
  final String connectionString; // Read-only property from provider

  DatabaseState({
    required super.resourceId,
    required super.resourceType,
    required this.name,
    required this.engine,
    this.port,
    required this.connectionString, // Provider assigns this
    super.metadata,
    super.resource,
  });
}
```

## Provider

A **Provider** is responsible for:

1. **Translating** Resources into actual infrastructure
2. **Creating** resources via API calls
3. **Reading** current state from infrastructure
4. **Updating** existing resources
5. **Deleting** resources

### Characteristics

- **Platform-specific**: Each provider handles a specific platform (AWS, Firebase, etc.)
- **State creator**: Creates ResourceState instances after operations
- **Resource handler**: Determines which resources it can manage

### Example

```dart
class DatabaseProvider extends Provider {
  @override
  Future<ResourceState> createResource(Resource resource) async {
    final db = resource as Database;
    
    // Call actual API to create database
    final apiResult = await api.createDatabase(
      name: db.name,
      engine: db.engine,
      port: db.port,
    );
    
    // Return ResourceState with read-only properties
    return DatabaseState(
      resourceId: db.id,
      resourceType: 'Database',
      name: db.name,
      engine: db.engine,
      port: db.port,
      connectionString: apiResult.connectionString, // From API
      resource: db,
    );
  }
}
```

## The Relationship Flow

### 1. Planning Phase

```
Resource (Desired)  →  Compare  →  ResourceState (Actual)
     │                                    │
     │                                    │
     └────────────────────────────────────┘
                    │
                    ▼
              Plan Operations
```

1. **Desired State**: Created from Resources in your Dart code
2. **Actual State**: Loaded from state file (contains ResourceState instances)
3. **Comparison**: Planner compares Resource properties with ResourceState properties
4. **Plan**: Generates operations (create, update, delete)

### 2. Execution Phase

```
Resource → Provider → System → ResourceState
   │         │          │            │
   │         │          │            │
   └─────────┴──────────┴────────────┘
                    │
                    ▼
            Saved to State File
```

1. **Resource** is passed to **Provider**
2. **Provider** calls the actual system API
3. The resource is created/updated/deleted in the system
4. **Provider** creates **ResourceState** with actual values
5. **ResourceState** is saved to state file

### 3. State Persistence

```
ResourceState → JSON → State File → JSON → ResourceState
```

ResourceState instances are serialized to JSON and persisted in the state file. When loaded, they're deserialized back to ResourceState instances.

## Key Concepts

### Resource → ResourceState Transformation

When a Provider creates a resource, it transforms a Resource (desired) into a ResourceState (actual):

```dart
// Input: Resource (what you want)
final resource = Database(
  id: 'db.main',
  name: 'main_database',
  engine: 'postgresql',
);

// Provider creates the resource in the system and returns ResourceState
final state = await provider.createResource(resource);

// Output: ResourceState (what exists)
// state.connectionString is now available (read-only from provider)
```

### Read-Only Properties

Some properties only exist in ResourceState because they're assigned by the provider:

```dart
// Resource: You define what you can
class AppStoreBundleId extends Resource<AppStoreBundleIdState> {
  final String name;      // You define this
  final String platform;  // You define this
  // bundleId is NOT here - App Store assigns it!
}

// ResourceState: Provider adds read-only properties
class AppStoreBundleIdState extends ResourceState {
  final String name;      // From Resource
  final String platform;  // From Resource
  final String bundleId;  // Read-only: Assigned by App Store!
}
```

### State Comparison

The Planner compares Resources with ResourceStates:

- **Only Resource properties** are compared (not read-only state properties)
- If Resource properties match ResourceState properties → No change needed
- If they differ → Update operation
- If Resource exists but no ResourceState → Create operation
- If ResourceState exists but no Resource → Delete operation

```dart
// Resource defines: name, engine, port
final desired = Database(id: 'db.main', name: 'db', engine: 'postgresql', port: 5432);

// ResourceState has: name, engine, port, connectionString
final actual = DatabaseState(..., name: 'db', engine: 'mysql', port: 5432, ...);

// Comparison: Only compares name, engine, port (not connectionString)
// Result: engine differs → Update operation needed
```

## Lifecycle Example

Here's a complete example showing the lifecycle:

```dart
// 1. Define desired state (Resource)
final database = Database(
  id: 'db.main',
  name: 'main_database',
  engine: 'postgresql',
  port: 5432,
);

// 2. Create stack with provider
final stack = DrftStack(
  name: 'my-stack',
  providers: [DatabaseProvider()],
  resources: [database],
);

// 3. Plan: Compare Resource with actual ResourceState
final plan = await stack.plan();
// If database doesn't exist: Plan shows CREATE operation

// 4. Apply: Provider creates the resource
final result = await stack.apply(plan);
// Provider.createResource(database) is called
// → API call creates database
// → Provider returns DatabaseState with connectionString

// 5. State is saved
// ResourceState is serialized and saved to .drft/state.json

// 6. Next plan: ResourceState is loaded and compared
final plan2 = await stack.plan();
// Resource properties match ResourceState properties
// → Plan shows no changes needed
```

## Type Safety

Resources are generic over their StateType:

```dart
// Resource knows what StateType it produces
class Database extends Resource<DatabaseState> {
  // ...
}

// This enables type-safe access to state properties
final state = await provider.createResource(database);
// state is DatabaseState, so you can access:
final connectionString = state.connectionString; // Type-safe!
```

## Summary

| Concept | Represents | Created By | Contains |
|---------|-----------|-----------|----------|
| **Resource** | Desired state | Developer (Dart code) | Configuration properties |
| **ResourceState** | Actual state | Provider (after API call) | Configuration + read-only properties |
| **Provider** | Translation layer | Provider developer | Logic to manage resources |

**The Flow:**
1. Developer defines **Resource** (desired state)
2. Planner compares **Resource** with **ResourceState** (actual state)
3. Executor passes **Resource** to **Provider**
4. **Provider** creates/updates resources in the system
5. **Provider** returns **ResourceState** (with actual values)
6. **ResourceState** is saved to state file

This separation allows DRFT to:
- **Plan** changes before applying them
- **Track** actual resource state
- **Compare** desired vs actual
- **Support** multiple providers for different platforms
